# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Classes**

* [`facter`](#facter): Manage facter

**Defined types**

* [`facter::fact`](#facterfact): Define txt based external facts

## Classes

### facter

This class will manage facter and allow you to specify external facts.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `facter` class.

##### `manage_facts_d_dir`

Data type: `Boolean`

Boolean to determine if the external facts directory will be managed.

Default value: `true`

##### `purge_facts_d`

Data type: `Boolean`

Boolean to determine if the external facts directory should be purged. This
will remove files not managed by Puppet.

Default value: `false`

##### `facts_d_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to the directory which will contain the external facts.

Default value: '/etc/facter/facts.d'

##### `facts_d_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

The owner of the `facts_d_dir`.

Default value: 'root'

##### `facts_d_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group of the `facts_d_dir`.

Default value: 'root'

##### `facts_d_mode`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filemode]`

The mode of the `facts_d_dir`.

Default value: '0755'

##### `path_to_facter`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The path to the facter binary.

Default value: '/opt/puppetlabs/bin/facter'

##### `path_to_facter_symlink`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to a symlink that points to the facter binary.

Default value: '/usr/local/bin/facter'

##### `ensure_facter_symlink`

Data type: `Boolean`

Boolean to determine if the symlink should be present.

Default value: `false`

##### `facts_hash`

Data type: `Hash`

A hash of `facter::fact` entries.

Default value: {}

##### `facts_file`

Data type: `String[1]`

The file in which the text based external facts are stored.

Default value: 'facts.txt'

##### `facts_file_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

The owner of the facts_file.

Default value: 'root'

##### `facts_file_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group of the facts_file.

Default value: 'root'

##### `facts_file_mode`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filemode]`

The mode of the facts_file.

Default value: '0644'

## Defined types

### facter::fact

Define txt based external facts

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `facter::fact` defined type.

##### `value`

Data type: `String[1]`

Value of the fact.

##### `fact`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of the fact

Default value: $name

##### `file`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

File in which the fact will be placed. If not specified, use the default
facts file.

Default value: `undef`

##### `facts_dir`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Directory in which the file will be placed. If not specified, use the
default facts_d_dir.

Default value: `undef`

